This game is called SCp-093 and is based off the story of the Green Test.

This game was my first ever game and as such I really enjoyed learning a node blueprinting as well as creating artwork. For this game the group set up several controls for mild personal control of the first person character.

Controls are as such:

C is transport through mirrors.
Right click to open a box or interact with an object which transports into the inventory.
E is pick into the inventory or pick up weapon like the axe or gun.
Shift to run/go faster.
F is flashlight which is useable in all dark areas.
Left mouse is hit or shoot depending on the weapon.
W, A, S, and D  are movement keys.
Spacebar is jump.

I programmed the the sounds which responds to trigger on either a responding action or a collision value to each sound. I also edited the sound files to have cue sounds attached to the original .wv file and then messed around with the nodes to modulate in the sound cues to edit both pitch and volume. I placed many of the cues to not be triggered in the cellar and bunker as atmospheric aspects of the level. I started the AI spawning process which we did not eventually use to the end progress of the game. The AI was already set up so I copied the already made one to edit to become a big monster with the same set up to chase and attack the player. What I did for it was place a nav mesh boundary and place a target point from which the AI would attack. I tried adding a boundary wall like a kill zone but it seemed to mess with the spawning attributes previously set up. Or I tried adding an invisible wall and that still messed with the spawning. The solution a teammate created was the placement of several walls intersecting each other to create a boundary instead of just one like how I tried. I edited the material of the cornstalks to wiggle through creating a value in the x and y axis in the material and move as I couldn’t find a way to simulate a wind. I also programmed the last portal that transfers the player to a game completed screen. While that code looks like it could have been copied and pasted I actually went through the previous examples of the instances being called and rerouted the mirror to the end. I was curious to the process do I made it. 

There was an interesting amount of struggle between me and sourcetree. Many times I have lost or had to maintain my commits and find them again. The process of dealing with source tree has been terrible with it forcing me to merge at inconvenient times and fighting me on most pushes. I found the reason for the merges and changed it, but at one point lost 7 hours of work. I found the blueprints to be easy enough for a novice and interesting enough for me to want to learn more for a smoother time. Something that was difficult to set up and maintain was the programming of the simple animation for the trigger box with a collision that sent the mice which could be interacted with ‘running’ from the player as they crossed a threshold. The mice can be killed if the player can go quickly enough to catch and get them. I programmed the mice to move quickly through setting the X and Y axis to a numerical value similar enough to how the cornstalks wiggle but in a forced movement. As a combo of art and programming I also created widgets for the game over/restart and the game completed/restart functions of the game. I placed and programmed them twice in the barn and cellar, though on a final playthrough before hand in I found the mice did not move as expected, as in some of them did move and the others not so much.

Much of my blueprinting did not go as expected and many of my commits are simply going back and revisiting previous work that did not work as expected. While that doesn’t feel like work that counts it also feels like how I learned through this project is cleaning up my mess and trying things out. I copied many things from the Unreal forum where i found entries with similar problems to mine own. It was a confusing way to answer questions about certain functions and animation. As a teammate I was a constate asker of questions and botherer of my teammates. Their patience is above most, and I truly enjoyed working with them. Overall I got a great sense of what it is like to use blueprints through most aspects and assets of the Unreal Engine. It was a challenge to understand more of the more complex blueprints like calling an instance and setting a respawning. Not all of my blueprints work perfectly and it was a constant battle to charge through the failures and figure out the problems. I also had a really great team to consult on things that I found to be over my head or confusing. It was a diffcult learning curve but worth it as I feel comfortable using the Unreal engine in any aspects and in its general user interface.
